- [Instructor] Logging is a valuable tool
for monitoring, accessing and debugging
an application at runtime.
In Java, the important artifacts for logging
are the logger, which is responsible for capturing events,
appender records the events,
and layouts, which are responsible for the appearance
of the data in the log entry.
There are several logging frameworks available,
like java.util.logging, Log4j, and Logback.
An abstraction layer, such as SLF4J,
decouples an application from any of these frameworks
which allow it to bind to a specific
logging framework at runtime.
Logging events in code is very easy.
Each class instantiates a class scoped logger,
then calls methods on it to record the events
according to its imports or severity.
Explorecali uses the Logback framework
where there are four kinds of events,
error, warning, info, debug and trace.
Error is the highest and most severe event
meaning something really bad and unexpected happened.
Trace is the lowest level event
which may only be of interest
to a developer trying to follow the logic flow.
Info and warning share the same level of severity.
Let's look at an example.
In TourRatingController,
we have a static logger which is instantiated
by the logger factory
and in createManyTourRatings,
let's move down to that one,
an info level event is recorded upon entry
along with the URL parameters.
And if I drill down into rateMany,
in rateMany we also record another info event
when entering the new method.
And then there is a debug level event
for which each customer in the customer array is shown.
Something also new in this method
is throwing a NoSuchElementException
when invalid tourId is passed in.
Back in TourRatingController,
the return 404 method catches the exception
and records an error level event.
This is pretty intuitive and easy to apply.
Now let's configure the appenders and the layouts.
This setup is done in a file called logback.xml
and it's in the resources folder.
So, let's create one.
And it's an XML file, so it needs a header.
And we're using UTF-8.
Now we need a configuration tag.
Configuring the appenders and the layouts
can get a little tricky.
Each destination has its own appender
and each appender could format the messages differently
and for appender sent to a file,
there are extra parameters
such as where to store the file
and creating new files as the log file grows.
Spring Boot provides a shortcut
to this by applying the most commonly used configuration
into external resource files.
So, I'm actually going to go on a browser.
In GitHub, we can see in the Spring Boot Project
where down in the springboot/source/main/resources
org/framework/boot/logging/logback/base.xml
a template that can be applied to our own application
without doing all this coding ourselves.
So, I'm actually going to cheat a little bit
and copy this line here
so I don't have to retype it
and back in our logback file,
I'm going to include that file.
And then put base.xml.
This creates a file appender
and a console appender
each with their own layouts.
Lastly, we configure the package and the log level.
And we're gonna have our log level as DEBUG.
It has to be in uppercase.
In production systems, you typically put the log level
at info but since this is still in development,
we'll set it at debug.
Any events recorded at the debug level
or higher are going to be logged.
A file file appender requires a destination
and the name of the log file,
so let's set that up in the applications.properties file.
We're gonna set up where the path of our log
is going to be located.
So, that's the directory where our logs will be recorded.
And then we're going to give the file name
of what the logs will be called.
Now I think we're ready,
yes, we're ready to run the application.
So, the application is started
and let's go over to Postman
and we're going to execute the post
to createManyTourRatings
for tour three with these customers.
And that executed correctly
and we'll see that on the console,
let me raise this up a little bit.
On the console, we have our messages formatted.
We're creating each tour rating
for customer four, five, six, seven, three and eight
and there is a logs folder now
that has the same information formatted
a little bit differently
but that's specific for file logs.
Now let's run Postman again
and as we know ahead of time,
this is going to actually fail
because it's going to cause a database integrity error
and we'll go look in the logs
and there's our logging error.
I've logged a lot more events in the exercise files
than I wanted to demonstrate here.
Logging should always be present in an application
and it's easy to add thanks to Spring Boot defaults.